# Paper form data entry

Experience has shown that in some contexts, paper forms are still the best way to collect data. In those cases, a common practice we have seen in the field, is that people take pictures of the forms and send them to a central office for data entry by WhatsApp, email or other means.

Monitool can help you with that: you can upload the pictures of the forms in the platform, which will process the images for easier data entry.

## Creating a paper form

{% embed url="https://app.arcade.software/share/tOeytpZLjSRknTkw04n5" %}

Paper forms are automatically generated by Monitool when you create a form in the platform. You can then download the form as a PDF, print it, and distribute it to the people collecting the data.

Depending on the complexity of the form, you can either use a portrait or landscape layout. The form will be generated in the same language as the project, and will include markers to help the platform process the images.

The form will also include a QR code that will help the platform identify the form when you upload the pictures.

## Uploading pictures of paper forms

{% embed url="https://app.arcade.software/share/VoCnn6SAqOg42MUx4vC1" %}

When you have collected the paper forms, you can upload the pictures in the platform. The platform will process the images, and extract the tabular data from the forms to make it easier to enter the data.

### Supported file types

Multiple types of files are supported for the upload of paper forms, including:

- A single picture of a form
- A bunch of pictures at once
- PDF files with as many pages as you want
- ZIP files with images or PDFs

If you are receiving the pictures by whatsapp, you simply drag & drop from [Whatsapp Web](https://web.whatsapp.com/) conversations.
