The site section of a project is where you define the locations where your project will be implemented.

This information is used to assign data sources to specific locations, and to filter the data in the reports generated by the platform.

Locations can be as broad as a country, or as specific as a consultation room in a health center, it all depends on:

- the level of detail you need to monitor your project.
- how you plan to collect the data.

Keep in mind that the data-entry interface will be organized by location, so more locations mean more work for the data-entry users!

## Adding a site

{% @arcade/embed flowId="MtCyfpl6WHElkeZRen8J" url="https://app.arcade.software/share/MtCyfpl6WHElkeZRen8J" %}

You can add as many sites as you need, and you can always come back to this section to add more sites at any time in the life of your project.

Adding sites is a simple process:

- Click on the `Add` button under the `Sites` table.
- Fill in a unique name for the site.
- Click on the `Save` button at the bottom of the page.

## Handling inactive or closed sites

{% @arcade/embed flowId="Cbalb7BnKsHrXbQeORx7" url="https://app.arcade.software/share/Cbalb7BnKsHrXbQeORx7" %}

It's common to have sites that are no longer active, or that have been closed.

When a site is no longer active, you can disable data entry by clicking on the `Disable data entry` button in the relevant site's row.

This will prevent users from entering data for this site, but will keep the site in the system for historical data and reporting purposes.

If you want to remove a site from the system, you can click on the `Delete` button in the relevant site's row. This will remove the site from the system, and will hide all the data associated with this site from all reports.

You can restore a deleted site by using the `History` feature.

# Grouping sites

{% @arcade/embed flowId="0UVBe4YXLPOdvDSs9aGy" url="https://app.arcade.software/share/0UVBe4YXLPOdvDSs9aGy" %}

You can group sites together at this stage.

This is useful when you have a large number of sites which share common characteristics, such as being in the same region, or being managed by the same organization, or funded by the same donor. Note that groups are not mutually exclusive, a site can belong to multiple groups!

Later on, this will allow you to:

- assign data sources and logical framework to a group of sites instead of having to assign the same data source to each site individually.
- compute reports which aggregate the data from all the sites in each group.
